A woman becomes pregnant
when one of her eggs is fertilized by sperm.
Normally, once an egg has been fertilized,
it moves down a Fallopian tube
to the uterus or womb.
It implants itself in the uterine wall
and is now an embryo.
In an ectopic pregnancy,
the fertilized egg implants itself
outside the uterus because damage,
scarring, or distortion of the Fallopian tubes
leaves it unable to pass
easily into the uterus.
Implantation in a Fallopian tube
is called a tubal pregnancy.
Or the egg may implant itself
in an ovary, the abdomen or the cervix.
Whatever the site of implantation,
an ectopic pregnancy cannot
continue to birth.
If the embryo continues to develop,
the tube or organ containing it,
will eventually burst
a potentially life-threatening emergency.
The risk of an ectopic pregnancy is
increased by tube infections,
surgery inside the abdomen,
fertility medications at the time of fertilization,
and a prior ectopic pregnancy.
An ectopic pregnancy is usually
identified during the first
5 to 10 weeks of pregnancy.
Causing symptoms of abdominal and
pelvic pain and vaginal bleeding,
it may be confused with a miscarriage.
How the developing cells are removed
depends on their location and size.